Combine where and sum when using sum only in 'perfect numbers' exercise approach (#2145)
exercism/csharp: exercises/practice/perfect-numbers/.approaches/if-statements/content.md

        if (number < 1)
            throw new ArgumentOutOfRangeException(nameof(number));

>         var sum = Enumerable.Range(1, number / 2)

Reviewer: I quite like `sumOfFactors` better to be honest. It better reflects the domain IMHO.

Author: Agreed. I wanted to align this with the other approach, but I'll submit a separate PR to fix this there as well.

```

The next step is to calculate the sum of the number's factors.
A factor is a number that you can divide another number with and not end up with a remainder, which we can check using the modulo (`%`) operator: `number % factor == 0`.

We then need to decide which numbers could possibly be factors.
For the lower bound, we can use `1`, as that is always the smallest factor.
For the upper bound, we can leverage the fact that the second lowest factor is `2`, which means that any numbers greater than `number / 2` cannot be factors.

We can use the [Enumerable.Sum() method][enumerable-sum] to sum all the factors, but since not all numbers are factors we need to deal with the numbers that aren't.

> Providing the [Enumerable.Sum() method][enumerable-sum] with a function tells it to keep every factor and use a `0` in place of every number that isn't, effectively disregarding it when summing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We provide the [Enumerable.Sum() method][enumerable-sum] with a lambda that tells it to keep every factor and use a `0` in place of every number that isn't, effectively disregarding it when summing.
```

```csharp
var sum = Enumerable.Range(1, number / 2)
    .Sum(n => number % n == 0 ? n : 0);
```

Then finally we can apply the logic to classify the perfect number via some `if` statements:

```csharp
if (sum < number)
    return Classification.Deficient;

if (sum > number)
    return Classification.Abundant;

return Classification.Perfect;
```

## Sum vs. Where and Sum

> The line `.Sum(n => number % n == 0 ? n : 0);` can also be written as `.Where(n => number % n == 0).Sum();`, using [Enumerable.Where() method][enumerable-where] to _keep_ only the factors and then [Enumerable.Sum() method][enumerable-sum] the result, but this is a little more verbose.

Reviewer: I feel like this is the wrong way around. In other approaches, I tend to start with the code that I then refactor. That way you show to the student how things can be improved.

Author: Good point, I'll look into this. I'll also fix this in mentioned PR for other approach so it's more cohesive.

       Classification.Perfect;
```

## Combining Where and Sum vs. using Sum only

> Instead of using [Where][enumerable-where] and then [Sum][enumerable-sum] we could actually implement this by using [Sum][enumerable-sum] only.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Instead of using [Where][enumerable-where] and then [Sum][enumerable-sum] we could actually implement this by using [Sum][enumerable-sum] only.
```
